---
title: 'Being Queer and being in a non-monogamous relationship... Is it double challenging?'
excerpt: Everyone is responsible for their own choices. Unfortunately, external factors seem to have a lot of say in this matter. Non-monogamy and being queer are two concepts that, in their own right, have a stigmatized attitude. However, the fact that the two concepts are in the same cluster brings with it a system of oppression created by the majority. I mean, don't you think being both queer and in non-monogamous relationships makes the situation doubly challenging?
coverImage: '/assets/blog/dynamic-routing/cover.png' 
date: '2023-04-27T05:35:07.322Z'
author:
  name: Ayse Isil Bozoklu
  picture: '/assets/blog/authors/ii.png'
ogImage:
  url: '/assets/blog/dynamic-routing/cover2.png'
---
Momnogamy has gained a cultural reality for humanity that has evolved and found its way over the years. The system imposed by the social structure draws a picture that grows out of you, finds your "soul mate" and lives a happy life with them until the end of your life. However, there are many people who do not adopt this romanticized and imposed system since childhood and have adapted consensual non-monogamous relationships to their own lifestyles. On the other hand, LGBTQ+ individuals, who are also seen as a minority in society and exposed to differentiation, have a different struggle to live their own lives. Now let's take a look at the intersecting cluster of individuals in which these two groups exist and who choose what is different from "normal" by the majority. In this case, unfortunately, it is an inevitable fact that the adopted lifestyle will be twice as difficult due to the challenges created by the environment. And of course, it is the heterosexual, monogamous majority that constitutes the environment in this regard. Studies on this subject shows that consensual non-monogamous relationships are subject to more stigmatization when they are among LGBTQ+ individuals and more reported emotional abuse, physical abuse, and sexual assault. What these data tell me is that in the 21st century, when all progress and developments are at their peak, knowledge is two keys away, and education level is high, we are still looking in the wrong places for the answer to what is normal or not normal. There is a term in our lives called minority stress against the oppression that they experience only because they cannot live the way they want, with the identity they want and they are a minority. In fact, the patterns we use are proof of how effective the oppression system inherited by the society we live in is. 
So what is the most important factor that makes the majority powerful and dominates it as a system of oppression? In a study conducted in Africa, which I read, they touted being able to reproduce as the most important marker of humanity, and concluded that not being able or wanting to do this biologically was the victim of a great pressure because it was not ideal. At this point, I realized that our perspective on bilateral relations is still shared with the society, and in fact, it does not remain as something to live between two people. Being able to reproduce gives power to the oppression system. 
